REVIEW THE FOLLOWING SITE FOR ADVANCED STATS KNOWLEDGE: 
https://bookdown.org/rdpeng/advstatcomp/


STATISTICS TOPICS TO GOOGLE AND READ ARTICLES ON:

Bias-Variance Trade-Off
Confusion Matrix
ROC curve
Normal Distribution
P-Value
Pearson Spearman
Normal distribution problem: z-scores (from ck12.org)
Continuous Probability Distributions
Standardizing Normally Distributed Random Variables (fast version)
Statistics 101: Simple Linear Regression, The Very Basics
Statistics 101: Linear Regression, Outliers, and Influential Observations
Statistics 101: ANOVA, A Visual Introduction
Statistics 101: Multiple Regression, The Very Basics
Statistics: Variance of a population | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy
Expected Value: E(X)
Law of large numbers | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy
Central limit theorem | Inferential statistics | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy
Margin of error 1 | Inferential statistics | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy
Margin of error 2 | Inferential statistics | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy
Hypothesis testing and p-values | Inferential statistics | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy
One-tailed and two-tailed tests | Inferential statistics | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy
Type 1 errors | Inferential statistics | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy
Large sample proportion hypothesis testing | Probability and Statistics | Khan Academy
Boosting and Bagging

Covariance vs Correlation
Point estimates vs confidence intervals
different distributions, and mean median mode for left and right tailed
Method of moments vs MLE

Probabilistic graphical model notes -> https://ermongroup.github.io/cs228-notes/
bayesian nets vs Markov random fields

Research statement:
    Other methods include DBScan clustering, Isolation Forests, and Robust Random Cut Forests.


Confidence intervals, critical values, t scores, z scores, hypothesisi testing, 

Hypothesis Testing Articles

    Basics:

    What is Ad Hoc Testing?
    Composite Hypothesis Test
    What is a Rejection Region?
    What is a Two Tailed Test?
    How to Decide if a Hypothesis Test is a One Tailed Test or a Two Tailed Test.
    How to Decide if a Hypothesis is a Left Tailed Test or a Right-Tailed Test.
    How to State the Null Hypothesis in Statistics.
    How to Find a Critical Value.
    How to Support or Reject a Null Hypothesis.
    Specific Tests:

    ANOVA.
    Chi Square Test for Normality
    Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel Test
    F Test
    Granger Causality Test.
    Hotelling’s T-Squared
    KPSS Test.
    What is a Likelihood-Ratio Test?
    Log rank test.
    MANCOVA
    Sequential Probability Ratio Test
    How to Run a Sign Test.
    T Test: one sample.
    T-Test: Two sample.
    Welch’s ANOVA.
    Welch’s Test for Unequal Variances.
    Z-Test: one sample.
    Z Test: Two Proportion
    Wald Test.
    Related Articles:

    What is an Acceptance Region?
    How to Calculate Chebyshev’s Theorem.
    Decision Rule.
    Degrees of Freedom.
    Directional Test
    False Discovery Rate
    How to calculate the Least Significant Difference.
    Levels in Statistics.
    How to Calculate Margin of Error.
    Mean Difference (Difference in Means)
    The Multiple Testing Problem.
    What is the Neyman-Pearson Lemma?
    One Sample Median Test.
    REGWF
    How to Find a Sample Size (General Instructions).
    Sig 2(Tailed) meaning in results
    What is a Standardized Test Statistic?
    How to Find Standard Error
    Standardized values: Example.
    How to Calculate a T-Score.
    T-Score Vs. a Z.Score.
    Testing a Single Mean.
    Unequal Sample Sizes.
    Uniformly Most Powerful Tests.
    How to Calculate a Z-Score.


Review this to find confidence interval for 2 independnt sampes continious outcome:
https://sphweb.bumc.bu.edu/otlt/MPH-Modules/BS/BS704_Confidence_Intervals/BS704_Confidence_Intervals5.html



5 minute stats has good notes:

https://stephens999.github.io/fiveMinuteStats/index.html


Mathematics - List of questions
Linear Algebra
What is broadcasting in connection to Linear Algebra?
What are scalars, vectors, matrices, and tensors?
What is Hadamard product of two matrices?
What is an inverse matrix?
If inverse of a matrix exists, how to calculate it?
What is the determinant of a square matrix? How is it calculated (Laplace expansion)? What is the connection of determinant to eigenvalues?
Discuss span and linear dependence.
What is Ax = b? When does Ax =b has a unique solution?
In Ax = b, what happens when A is fat or tall?
When does inverse of A exist?
What is a norm? What is L1, L2 and L infinity norm?
What are the conditions a norm has to satisfy?
Why is squared of L2 norm preferred in ML than just L2 norm?
When L1 norm is preferred over L2 norm?
Can the number of nonzero elements in a vector be defined as L0 norm? If no, why?
What is Frobenius norm?
What is a diagonal matrix? (D_i,j = 0 for i != 0)
Why is multiplication by diagonal matrix computationally cheap? How is the multiplication different for square vs. non-square diagonal matrix?
At what conditions does the inverse of a diagonal matrix exist? (square and all diagonal elements non-zero)
What is a symmetrix matrix? (same as its transpose)
What is a unit vector?
When are two vectors x and y orthogonal? (x.T * y = 0)
At R^n what is the maximum possible number of orthogonal vectors with non-zero norm?
When are two vectors x and y orthonormal? (x.T * y = 0 and both have unit norm)
What is an orthogonal matrix? Why is computationally preferred? (a square matrix whose rows are mutually orthonormal and columns are mutually orthonormal.)
What is eigendecomposition, eigenvectors and eigenvalues?
How to find eigen values of a matrix?
Write the eigendecomposition formula for a matrix. If the matrix is real symmetric, how will this change?
Is the eigendecomposition guaranteed to be unique? If not, then how do we represent it?
What are positive definite, negative definite, positive semi definite and negative semi definite matrices?
What is SVD? Why do we use it? Why not just use ED?
Given a matrix A, how will you calculate its SVD?
What are singular values, left singulars and right singulars?
What is the connection of SVD of A with functions of A?
Why are singular values always non-negative?
What is the Moore Penrose pseudo inverse and how to calculate it?
If we do Moore Penrose pseudo inverse on Ax = b, what solution is provided is A is fat? Moreover, what solution is provided if A is tall?
Which matrices can be decomposed by ED? (Any NxN square matrix with N linearly independent eigenvectors)
Which matrices can be decomposed by SVD? (Any matrix; V is either conjugate transpose or normal transpose depending on whether A is complex or real)
What is the trace of a matrix?
How to write Frobenius norm of a matrix A in terms of trace?
Why is trace of a multiplication of matrices invariant to cyclic permutations?
What is the trace of a scalar?
Write the frobenius norm of a matrix in terms of trace?
Numerical Optimization
What is underflow and overflow?
How to tackle the problem of underflow or overflow for softmax function or log softmax function?
What is poor conditioning?
What is the condition number?
What are grad, div and curl?
What are critical or stationary points in multi-dimensions?
Why should you do gradient descent when you want to minimize a function?
What is line search?
What is hill climbing?
What is a Jacobian matrix?
What is curvature?
What is a Hessian matrix?
Basics of Probability and Informaion Theory
Compare "Frequentist probability" vs. "Bayesian probability"?
What is a random variable?
What is a probability distribution?
What is a probability mass function?
What is a probability density function?
What is a joint probability distribution?
What are the conditions for a function to be a probability mass function?
What are the conditions for a function to be a probability density function?
What is a marginal probability? Given the joint probability function, how will you calculate it?
What is conditional probability? Given the joint probability function, how will you calculate it?
State the Chain rule of conditional probabilities.
What are the conditions for independence and conditional independence of two random variables?
What are expectation, variance and covariance?
Compare covariance and independence.
What is the covariance for a vector of random variables?
What is a Bernoulli distribution? Calculate the expectation and variance of a random variable that follows Bernoulli distribution?
What is a multinoulli distribution?
What is a normal distribution?
Why is the normal distribution a default choice for a prior over a set of real numbers?
What is the central limit theorem?
What are exponential and Laplace distribution?
What are Dirac distribution and Empirical distribution?
What is mixture of distributions?
Name two common examples of mixture of distributions? (Empirical and Gaussian Mixture)
Is Gaussian mixture model a universal approximator of densities?
Write the formulae for logistic and softplus function.
Write the formulae for Bayes rule.
What do you mean by measure zero and almost everywhere?
If two random variables are related in a deterministic way, how are the PDFs related?
Define self-information. What are its units?
What are Shannon entropy and differential entropy?
What is Kullback-Leibler (KL) divergence?
Can KL divergence be used as a distance measure?
Define cross-entropy.
What are structured probabilistic models or graphical models?
In the context of structured probabilistic models, what are directed and undirected models? How are they represented? What are cliques in undirected structured probabilistic models?
Confidence interval
What is population mean and sample mean?
What is population standard deviation and sample standard deviation?
Why population s.d. has N degrees of freedom while sample s.d. has N-1 degrees of freedom? In other words, why 1/N inside root for pop. s.d. and 1/(N-1) inside root for sample s.d.? (Here)
What is the formula for calculating the s.d. of the sample mean?
What is confidence interval?
What is standard error?





Machine Learning - List of questions
Learning Theory
Describe bias and variance with examples.
What is Empirical Risk Minimization?
What is Union bound and Hoeffding's inequality?
Write the formulae for training error and generalization error. Point out the differences.
State the uniform convergence theorem and derive it.
What is sample complexity bound of uniform convergence theorem?
What is error bound of uniform convergence theorem?
What is the bias-variance trade-off theorem?
From the bias-variance trade-off, can you derive the bound on training set size?
What is the VC dimension?
What does the training set size depend on for a finite and infinite hypothesis set? Compare and contrast.
What is the VC dimension for an n-dimensional linear classifier?
How is the VC dimension of a SVM bounded although it is projected to an infinite dimension?
Considering that Empirical Risk Minimization is a NP-hard problem, how does logistic regression and SVM loss work?
Model and feature selection
Why are model selection methods needed?
How do you do a trade-off between bias and variance?
What are the different attributes that can be selected by model selection methods?
Why is cross-validation required?
Describe different cross-validation techniques.
What is hold-out cross validation? What are its advantages and disadvantages?
What is k-fold cross validation? What are its advantages and disadvantages?
What is leave-one-out cross validation? What are its advantages and disadvantages?
Why is feature selection required?
Describe some feature selection methods.
What is forward feature selection method? What are its advantages and disadvantages?
What is backward feature selection method? What are its advantages and disadvantages?
What is filter feature selection method and describe two of them?
What is mutual information and KL divergence?
Describe KL divergence intuitively.
Curse of dimensionality
Describe the curse of dimensionality with examples.
What is local constancy or smoothness prior or regularization?
Universal approximation of neural networks
State the universal approximation theorem? What is the technique used to prove that?
What is a Borel measurable function?
Given the universal approximation theorem, why can't a MLP still reach a arbitrarily small positive error?
Deep Learning motivation
What is the mathematical motivation of Deep Learning as opposed to standard Machine Learning techniques?
In standard Machine Learning vs. Deep Learning, how is the order of number of samples related to the order of regions that can be recognized in the function space?
What are the reasons for choosing a deep model as opposed to shallow model? (1. Number of regions O(2^k) vs O(k) where k is the number of training examples 2. # linear regions carved out in the function space depends exponentially on the depth. )
How Deep Learning tackles the curse of dimensionality?
Support Vector Machine
How can the SVM optimization function be derived from the logistic regression optimization function?
What is a large margin classifier?
Why SVM is an example of a large margin classifier?
SVM being a large margin classifier, is it influenced by outliers? (Yes, if C is large, otherwise not)
What is the role of C in SVM?
In SVM, what is the angle between the decision boundary and theta?
What is the mathematical intuition of a large margin classifier?
What is a kernel in SVM? Why do we use kernels in SVM?
What is a similarity function in SVM? Why it is named so?
How are the landmarks initially chosen in an SVM? How many and where?
Can we apply the kernel trick to logistic regression? Why is it not used in practice then?
What is the difference between logistic regression and SVM without a kernel? (Only in implementation – one is much more efficient and has good optimization packages)
How does the SVM parameter C affect the bias/variance trade off? (Remember C = 1/lambda; lambda increases means variance decreases)
How does the SVM kernel parameter sigma^2 affect the bias/variance trade off?
Can any similarity function be used for SVM? (No, have to satisfy Mercer’s theorem)
Logistic regression vs. SVMs: When to use which one? ( Let's say n and m are the number of features and training samples respectively. If n is large relative to m use log. Reg. or SVM with linear kernel, If n is small and m is intermediate, SVM with Gaussian kernel, If n is small and m is massive, Create or add more fetaures then use log. Reg. or SVM without a kernel)
Bayesian Machine Learning
What are the differences between “Bayesian” and “Freqentist” approach for Machine Learning?
Compare and contrast maximum likelihood and maximum a posteriori estimation.
How does Bayesian methods do automatic feature selection?
What do you mean by Bayesian regularization?
When will you use Bayesian methods instead of Frequentist methods? (Small dataset, large feature set)
Regularization
What is L1 regularization?
What is L2 regularization?
Compare L1 and L2 regularization.
Why does L1 regularization result in sparse models? here
Evaluation of Machine Learning systems
What are accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, ROC?
What are precision and recall?
Describe t-test in the context of Machine Learning.
Clustering
Describe the k-means algorithm.
What is distortion function? Is it convex or non-convex?
Tell me about the convergence of the distortion function.
Topic: EM algorithm
What is the Gaussian Mixture Model?
Describe the EM algorithm intuitively.
What are the two steps of the EM algorithm
Compare GMM vs GDA.
Dimensionality Reduction
Why do we need dimensionality reduction techniques? (data compression, speeds up learning algorithm and visualizing data)
What do we need PCA and what does it do? (PCA tries to find a lower dimensional surface such the sum of the squared projection error is minimized)
What is the difference between logistic regression and PCA?
What are the two pre-processing steps that should be applied before doing PCA? (mean normalization and feature scaling)
Basics of Natural Language Processing
What is WORD2VEC?
What is t-SNE? Why do we use PCA instead of t-SNE?
What is sampled softmax?
Why is it difficult to train a RNN with SGD?
How do you tackle the problem of exploding gradients? (By gradient clipping)
What is the problem of vanishing gradients? (RNN doesn't tend to remember much things from the past)
How do you tackle the problem of vanishing gradients? (By using LSTM)
Explain the memory cell of a LSTM. (LSTM allows forgetting of data and using long memory when appropriate.)
What type of regularization do one use in LSTM?
What is Beam Search?
How to automatically caption an image? (CNN + LSTM)
Miscellaneous
What is the difference between loss function, cost function and objective function?